📄 Product Requirements Document (PRD)

App Name: Anagram Genie
Product Name: Console Anagram Checker
Version: 1.0
Author: Jaini Kotadia
Date: 30/8/25

1. 🎯 Purpose

The purpose of this program is to allow users to check whether two given words/phrases are anagrams of each other. The program will take the user’s name as input to provide a personalized experience and return a friendly message with emojis depending on the result.

2. 📌 Scope

The program will run on the console/terminal.

Users will be able to:

Enter their name.

Enter two words or phrases.

Get the result stating if the inputs are anagrams or not.

Special characters, punctuation, and spaces should be ignored during comparison.

Case should not matter (e.g., "Listen" and "Silent" should be considered anagrams).

3. 👥 User Stories

As a user, I want to enter my name so that the program greets me personally.

As a user, I want to input two words or phrases to check if they are anagrams.

As a user, I want to receive a clear, fun, and personalized response with emojis to make the experience enjoyable.

4. ✅ Functional Requirements

Input Handling

Prompt the user for their name.

Prompt the user for the first word/phrase.

Prompt the user for the second word/phrase.

Processing

Remove spaces and punctuation.

Convert inputs to lowercase.

Sort characters and compare.

Output

If the inputs are anagrams:

Display: "Hey [Name], these are anagrams 😍"

If not anagrams:

Display: "Sorry [Name], these are not anagrams 😢"

5. 🚫 Non-Functional Requirements

The program should handle invalid inputs gracefully (e.g., empty strings).

Execution should be fast (real-time response).

Should work across platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux).

6. 🖥 Example Flow

Console Example:

Enter your name: Alex
Enter the first word/phrase: Listen
Enter the second word/phrase: Silent

Hey Alex, these are anagrams 😍


Another Example:

Enter your name: Priya
Enter the first word/phrase: Hello
Enter the second word/phrase: World

Sorry Priya, these are not anagrams 😢

7. 📊 Success Metrics

Users can easily check for anagrams in less than 10 seconds.

Personalized output improves engagement.

Program runs without errors on console.